This guide provides step by step configuration of Zing project, which is a Java based SNS site, conforming to opensocial specification.

===Prerequisites===
  # JDK 1.6 
  # Maven 2.0.9
    * Set M2_HOME as environment variable.
    * Update path environment variable to append %M2_HOME%/bin.
  # Jetty 6.1.9. Jetty can be downloaded from http://dist.codehaus.org/jetty/jetty-6.1.9
  # Shindig revision: 687705. It can be downloaded from http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/shindig/trunk
  # MySQL 5

===Path References===
  # ${!ZingWeb} = path to !ZingWeb project
  # ${!ZingWebConfig} = path to !ZingWebConfig project
  # ${!Jetty_Home} = path to Jetty server
  # ${Shindig} = path to Shindig source

===Configuring Zing Database===
  # Download the database script zing_db.sql from [http://zing.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/zing/downloads/database/script/zing_db.sql], and execute the script on MySQL database.

===Configuring Zing===
  # Get the projects !ZingWeb and !ZingWebConfig. Do a svn checkout for http://zing.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/zing/ZingWeb/ and http://zing.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/zing/ZingWebConfig/
  # Change the web.xml for !ZingWeb project located at ${!ZingWeb}/!WebContent/WEB-INF and configure the "GadgetServerURL" parameter according to "ip-of-jetty-server" and "jetty-port".
  # Execute the command *` mvn package`* to generate build for !ZingWeb project. Maven build file "pom.xml" can be located within "!ZingWeb" project. This will generate "target"  directory within the project, which contains "!ZingWeb" directory.
  # Browse to "lib" directory within "WEB-INF" of "!ZingWeb" exploded war, then cut "el-api-6.0.18.jar" and paste it to ${!Jetty_Home}/lib/ext directory. 
  # Place the "!ZingWeb" exploded war within ${!Jetty_Home}/webapps directory.
  # Browse to ${!ZingWebConfig}/configurations/persistence/persistence.xml. Configure this file to provide database URL and credentials.
  # Set COMPOSITE_CONFIG="${!ZingWebConfig}/configurations/configurationControlFile.xml" as environment variable.
   
===Configuring Shindig===
  # Download !ZingShindigUpdate files from : http://zing.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/zing/downloads/zingshindigupdate/update_01.rar.
  # Extract this archive and make changes into SpiceDBLayer.java, to provide database credentials.
  # Place these two files in "${Shindig}/java/social-api/src/main/java/org/apache/shindig/social/sample/spi" directory.  
  # Delete the "test" directories located at ${Shindig}/java/server/src & ${Shindig}/java/social-api/src. 
  # Execute *` mvn package`* command for maven build file located at ${Shindig} directory. It generates "shindig-server-1-SNAPSHOT" directory at ${Shindig}/java/server/target directory.
  # Copy the contents of generated "shindig-server-1-SNAPSHOT" to ${!Jetty_Home}/webapps/ROOT directory of Jetty server. 

Finally, start the Jetty server and hit the URL: *{{{http://<ip-of-jetty-server>:<jetty-port>/ZingWeb/faces/pages/login.jspx}}}*

===Login Credentials===

Below are the test login credentials:

 # Username: *test*, password:*test*


User can also signup with Zing to create new user.